docs/EARLY-RELEASE.md: how to determine an early release (#9820)
curl/curl: docs/EARLY-RELEASE.md

# How to determine if an early patch release is warranted

In the curl project we do releases every 8 weeks. Unless we break the cycle

> and to an early patch release.

Reviewer: s/to/do/

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

We do frequent releases partly to always have the next release "not too far
away".

## Bugfix

During the release cycle, and especially in the beginning of a new cycle,
there are times when a bug is reported and after it has been subsequently
fixed correctly, the discussion might be brought up: is this bug and
associated fix important enough for an early patch release.

The question can only be properly asked once a fix has been created and landed
in the git master branch.

## Early release

An early patch release means that we ship a new, complete and full release
called `major.minor.patch` where the `patch` part is increased by one since
the previous release. A curl release is a curl release. There is no small or
big and we never release just a patch. There is only "release".

## Questions to ask

>  - Is there a security advisory rated high or critical?

Reviewer: Come to think of it, if there was, wouldn't that warrant a new release which bumps the minor rev and not just the patch rev? This only applies to *high* and *critical* of course.

Author: Would it really? If we just fix an internal flaw somewhere that is still just a patch release, even if that fixes a really serious security flaw - I think.

Reviewer 2: If you are on a monthly cycle, and this fix comes out 2 days into the cycle and you want to release it as a patch, but will be more thoroughly packaging the fix by the end of the cycle, perhaps it is a patch, not a minor release.

Reviewer: If we are past the opening of the feature window then all releases are by definition minor rev bumps since new features will have gone in. (or well, *may* have gone in..)

Reviewer: > Would it really? If we just fix an internal flaw somewhere that is still just a patch release, even if that fixes a really serious security flaw - I think.

For signalling purposes I think it can be argued for minor rev bump, but technically it should be a patch following the current process.

 - Is there a data corruption bug?
 - Did the bug cause an API/ABI breakage?

If the answer is yes to one or more of the above, an early release might
indeed be warranted.

More questions to ask ourselves when doing the assessment if the answers to
the three ones above are all 'no'.

 - Does the bug cause curl to prematurely terminate?
 - How common is the affected buggy option/feature/protocol/platform to get
   used?
 - How large is the estimated impacted user base?
 - Does the bug block something crucial for applications or other adoption of
   curl "out there" ?
 - Does the bug cause problems for curl developers or others on "the curl
   team" ?
 - Is the bug limited to the curl tool only? That might have a smaller impact
   than a bug also present in libcurl.
 - Is there a (decent) workaround?
 - Is it a regression? Is the bug introduced in this release?
 - Can the bug be fixed "easily" by applying a patch?
 - Does the bug break the build? Most users don't build curl themselves.
 - How long is it left until the already scheduled next release?
 - Can affected users safely rather revert to a former release until the next

>    scheduled release?

Reviewer: - Is it a performance regression which has no functionality side-effects? If so it has to be substantial.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

## If an early release is deemed necessary

Unless done for security or similarly important reasons, an early release

> should never be done within two weeks of the previous version was shipped.

Reviewer 3: Grammar: "within two weeks of" should be followed by a noun-phrase, without a verb. You might want to consider something like:
```suggestion
should never be done within two weeks of the release of the previous version.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
